+++
title = 'bidt Graduate Center for Postdocs funding approved'
date = 2024-09-18T09:16:34+02:00
author = "Kevin Mayer"
draft = false
+++


The Bavarian State Ministry of Science and the Arts published a postdoc funding opportunity. The funding includes a fully funded postdoc position plus additional resources for the project at a German university.

I am happy to announce that the Bavarian State Ministry of Science and the Arts funded my project proposal for [AI-Driven Digital Forensics](#the-project-idea)! I will start with the project on January 1st, 2024, at the Friedrich-Alexander-University Erlangen-Nürnberg within the research group of [Prof. Dr. Felix Freiling](https://www.cs1.tf.fau.de/person/felix-freiling/). The project is funded for 2-4 years. I am very happy for this opportunity. It allows me to continue my research efforts in an awesome research group. I am particularly happy to continue to work at the institute where I know from my PhD.

Here is a link to the [STMWK press release](https://www.stmwk.bayern.de/pressemitteilung/12824/nr-73-vom-17-09-2024.html) (in German).

# The project idea

**Title**: AI-Driven Digital Forensics: Enhancing Evidential Integrity and Efficiency through Generative Artificial Intelligence in Knowledge Representation

Law enforcement and other digital investigation entities are overwhelmed by the sheer amount of digital evidence they face. Current research and implementation efforts indicate that investigators and tools should use artificial intelligence (AI) to support or steer such investigations. This raises the question of how and which AI-based technologies can and should support digital forensics investigations. 

This research project takes a unique and critical perspective on the implementation of AI technologies in the digital forensics domain.

I will publish more insights and first results on my website and in publications throughout the project.
